Brandon Clark
7 Jan 2014
WPF Sec 1
Problem Solving

Problem 1- A Cat, a Parrot, and a Bag of Seed

Define the Problem:

The problem here is that we can not leave the cat, parrot alone or bag of seed and the parrot alone  to get to the other side of the river.

The man will have to move the parrot back and forth a couple of times to solve this riddle.

The overall goal is to get the parrot, cat and seed all to the other side of the river.


Break the problem apart:

We have been limited to the number of items the man can carry accross the river. Yet we cannot leave the cat and parrot alone, nor can we leave the parrot and the seed alone.

If the cat is alone with the parrot it will eat the parrot and if the parrot is alone with the seed then it will it that. So keep them seperate and make multiple trips with the parrot back and forth.

Identify potential solutions:	

Take the parrot accross first and drop it off. Then go get the cat. Come back with the cat and pick up the parrot. Go back for the seed and drop off parrot. Drop off seed next to cat and go back for parrot. Then return to the other side of the river and the Man, Cat, Parrot and bag of seed will all be together without the loss of life to the bird or seed.



Evalute Each potential solution

Yes this sole solution meets the goal.

There is only one solution to this problem without bringing in an outside sources to the story with the current virables given.

Chose a solution and develop a plan to implemnt it.

Take the parrot accross first and drop it off. Then go get the cat. Come back with the cat and pick up the parrot. Go back for the seed and drop off parrot. Drop off seed next to cat and go back for parrot. Then return to the other side of the river and the Man, Cat, Parrot and bag of seed will all be together without the loss of life to the bird or seed.

There wasnt a need for a test case. I could just easily visualize the solution in my head.

Socks in the Dark

Define the Problem:

The problem is that it dark and we must reach out and grab into a pile of 20 socks.

The insight I have is why am I digging through a a drawer with unmatched socks to begin with? 

The overall goal is to get "atleast one matching pair and at least one matching pair of each color."


Break the problem apart:

The constraints are that it is dark while seaching threw the drawer. The socks are not paired and rolled for some reason.

Sub goals would be getting into the right drawer and being able to feel for the right amount of socks


Identity potential solutions

Flip the light on to get a quick view of the drawer. Or he could turn the light on, dump the drawer on the bed and pair them. Put them back in the drawer paired and shut of fthe light. betters his of getting what he wants.


Evaluate each potential solutions

The solutions I provided would not keep you within the constraints of the story. 

So no it does not meet the goal.


Choose a solution and develop a plan to implement it.

Since there is only 3 different kinds of socks then all you have to do is grab 4 pairs of socks. This will guarantee you atleast 1 pair. Now for a matching pair of each color then you will need 9 pairs of socks.


Predicting Fingers

Define the problem:

The problem is identifing the pattern that can be applied so you dont have to count out 1-1000 on your hand.

Figure out where the sequence changes on the fingers. Only have to count to 30 and then it is easily solved.

The overall goal is to find the pattern used to determine which finger is used at 10, 100, 1000.


Break the problem apart:

Constraints are using just one hand to count and having to count to 30 before noticing the pattern.

Sub-goals would be not to quit counting before reaching 30.


Identify potential solutions:

Count as high as you can on the one hand and stop once you notice your alternating between your index and ring finger.
It may seem like it at first but you must count to atleast 30 before the pattern changes.


